TOPICS Understand 
 What is OEE? OEE Factors Six Big Losses Hidden Factory Practical OEE 

 Measure 
 Calculate OEE Implement OEE Calculate TEEP Visual OEE ™ 

 Improve 
 Improve OEE World-Class OEE Address the Six Big Losses Takt Time 

 Try Vorne XL free for 90 days 

 FAQ 
 GLOSSARY 
 ABOUT US 
 FREE TOOLS 

 TOPICS 

 FAQ 

 GLOSSARY 

 ABOUT US 

 FREE TOOLS 

 LEARN THE ART & SCIENCE OF MANUFACTURING IMPROVEMENT FROM VORNE 
 OEE Factors

 THE BIG IDEA 

 Your OEE score tells you where you are at, but the three underlying factors (Availability, Performance, and Quality) tell you where you should focus your improvement efforts. 

 Getting Started with OEE Factors
 Let’s start at the beginning – with All Time. This is also called 24/7 time (it includes every minute of every day).

 From All Time, you subtract Schedule Loss, which includes all time that should be excluded from OEE analysis because there is no intention of running production during this time (e.g., plant shutdowns, breaks/lunches, or periods where there are no orders). Schedule Loss is part of TEEP (Total Effective Equipment Performance) . It is not part of OEE.
 The remaining time is your Planned Production Time. OEE begins with Planned Production Time and scrutinizes all efficiency and productivity losses that occur within that time, with the goal of reducing or eliminating these losses.

 Now we will look at the three OEE factors, each of which takes into account a different type of loss. They are Availability, Performance, and Quality.
 OEE Availability
 OEE availability is the ratio of Run Time to Planned Production Time. Availability takes into account Availability Loss, which includes any events that stop planned production for an appreciable length of time (usually several minutes, long enough for an operator to log a reason).
 Examples of things that create Availability Loss include Unplanned Stops (such as equipment failures and material shortages) and Planned Stops (such as changeover time). Changeover time is included in OEE analysis since it is time that could otherwise be used for manufacturing. While it may not be possible to eliminate changeover time, in most cases, it can be significantly reduced. Reducing changeover time is the goal of SMED (Single-Minute Exchange of Die) .
 The remaining time after Availability Loss is subtracted is called Run Time.

 OEE Performance
 OEE performance takes into account Performance Loss, which accounts for anything that causes the manufacturing process to run at less than the maximum possible speed when it is running (including both Slow Cycles and Small Stops).
 Examples of things that create Performance Loss include machine wear, substandard materials, misfeeds, and jams.
 The remaining time after Performance Loss is subtracted and is called Net Run Time.

 OEE Quality
 Quality takes into account Quality Loss, which accounts for manufactured parts that do not meet quality standards.
 Examples of things that create Quality Loss include scrap and parts that need rework. OEE Quality is similar to First Pass Yield, in that it defines Good Parts as parts that successfully pass through the manufacturing process the first time without needing any rework.
 The remaining time after Quality Loss is subtracted is called Fully Productive Time.

 Our goal is not simply to measure OEE – it is to maximize Fully Productive Time.
 The Manufacturing Productivity Improvement Device That Feels Like Magic In less than 8 hours you can benefit from automated, real-time accurate data. Learn About Vorne XL 

 42,000+ Installations 
 45+ Countries 
 $4,690 One-Time Cost 
 8 Hours to Deploy 
 50+ Years in Business 

 8 Hours to Deploy 
 50+ Years in Business 

 Quick Review
 Now that you have taken a look at how the three OEE Factors are defined, we can quickly review each type of loss and its relationship to the OEE factors.
 Loss OEE Factor 
 Schedule Loss Not part of the OEE calculation (it is part of the TEEP calculation).

 Availability Loss Availability is the ratio of Run Time to Planned Production Time.
 It takes into account Equipment Failure (unplanned stops) and Setup and Adjustments (planned stops) from the Six Big Losses .
 100% Availability means the process is running during Planned Production Time without any Stop Time (without any Unplanned or Planned Stops).

 Performance Loss Performance is the ratio of Net Run Time to Run Time.
 It takes into account Idling and Minor Stops (small stops) and Reduced Speed (speed loss) from the Six Big Losses .
 100% Performance means the manufacturing process is running at its theoretical maximum speed (when it is running).

 Quality Loss Quality is the ratio of Fully Productive Time to Net Run Time.
 It takes into account Process Defects (production rejects) and Reduced Yield (startup rejects) from the Six Big Losses. 
 100% Quality means there are no scrap parts or parts needing rework.

 As you can see, the core concepts of OEE are quite simple and the three OEE Factors really help to focus us on the underlying causes of productivity loss.
 We can delve even deeper into productivity losses by understanding the Six Big Losses .
 We can also extend OEE analysis a step further by taking into account a fourth factor – Utilization. This takes us into the realm of TEEP .
 Download Free OEE Tools 

 WHAT YOU SHOULD DO NEXT...
 1. Learn more about how our product, Vorne XL, can help you eliminate waste and significantly improve OEE.
 Vorne XL is the simplest and fastest way to monitor and improve production. It's a one-time cost and takes just a day to install. And you can try it completely free for 90 days.
 Learn More 2. Download our FREE package of tools to supercharge your manufacturing productivity
 The package includes leadership lessons, training guides, meeting and report templates, summaries of key concepts, project organizers, and more. You'll also receive our monthly newsletter for free. Unsubscribe at any time.
 DOWNLOAD FREE LEAN TOOLS 3. Sign up for our monthly newsletter
 Get free monthly updates with proven methods for improving our manufacturing productivity. Unsubscribe at any time.

 First Name* 
 Last Name* 

 Email* 
 Phone Number* 
 Company Name* 
 What would you like to achieve with XL? 
 Submit 

 +1.630.875.3600 [email protected] 1445 Industrial Dr. Itasca, IL 60143 
 Learn About OEE 
 What is OEE? OEE Factors Six Big Losses Hidden Factory Practical OEE 
 Calculate OEE Implement OEE Calculate TEEP Visual OEE ™ 
 Improve OEE World-Class Address the Six Big Losses Takt Time 

 Resources 
 Free OEE Tools OEE Glossary FAQ 

 About Us 
 Our Company Vorne.com LeanProduction.com Vorne XL Free Trial 

 © 2011-2026 Vorne Industries. All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy