TOPICS Understand 
 What is OEE? OEE Factors Six Big Losses Hidden Factory Practical OEE 

 Measure 
 Calculate OEE Implement OEE Calculate TEEP Visual OEE ™ 

 Improve 
 Improve OEE World-Class OEE Address the Six Big Losses Takt Time 

 Try Vorne XL free for 90 days 

 FAQ 
 GLOSSARY 
 ABOUT US 
 FREE TOOLS 

 TOPICS 

 FAQ 

 GLOSSARY 

 ABOUT US 

 FREE TOOLS 

 LEARN THE ART & SCIENCE OF MANUFACTURING IMPROVEMENT FROM VORNE 
 Calculate OEE

 THE BIG IDEA 

 Using the preferred OEE calculation (A x P x Q = OEE) makes it easier to take action against the underlying causes of lost productivity. 

 Simple OEE Calculation
 The simplest way to calculate OEE is as the ratio of Fully Productive Time to Planned Production Time. Fully Productive Time is just another way of saying manufacturing only Good Parts as fast as possible (Ideal Cycle Time) with no Stop Time. The simple calculation of OEE is:
 OEE = (Good Count × Ideal Cycle Time) / Planned Production Time

 Although this is an entirely valid calculation of OEE, it does not provide information about the three loss-related factors : Availability, Performance, and Quality. For that – we use the preferred calculation.
 Preferred OEE Calculation
 The preferred OEE calculation is based on the three OEE Factors : Availability, Performance, and Quality.

 OEE is calculated by multiplying the three OEE factors: Availability, Performance, and Quality. Availability
 Availability takes into account all events that stop planned production long enough where it makes sense to track a reason for being down (typically several minutes).
 Availability is calculated as the ratio of Run Time to Planned Production Time:
 Availability = Run Time / Planned Production Time

 Run Time is simply Planned Production Time less Stop Time, where Stop Time is defined as all time where the manufacturing process was intended to be running but was not due to Unplanned Stops (e.g., Breakdowns) or Planned Stops (e.g., Changeovers).
 Run Time = Planned Production Time − Stop Time

 Performance
 Performance takes into account anything that causes the manufacturing process to run at less than the maximum possible speed when it is running (including both Slow Cycles and Small Stops).
 Performance is the ratio of Net Run Time to Run Time. It is calculated as:
 Performance = (Ideal Cycle Time × Total Count) / Run Time

 Ideal Cycle Time is the fastest cycle time that your process can achieve in optimal circumstances. Therefore, when it is multiplied by Total Count the result is Net Run Time (the fastest possible time to manufacture the parts).
 Since rate is the reciprocal of time, Performance can also be calculated as:
 Performance = (Total Count / Run Time) / Ideal Run Rate

 Performance should never be greater than 100%. If it is, that usually indicates that Ideal Cycle Time is set incorrectly (it is too high).
 Quality
 Quality takes into account manufactured parts that do not meet quality standards, including parts that need rework. Remember, OEE Quality is similar to First Pass Yield, in that it defines Good Parts as parts that successfully pass through the manufacturing process the first time without needing any rework.
 Quality is calculated as:
 Quality = Good Count / Total Count

 This is the same as taking the ratio of Fully Productive Time (only Good Parts manufactured as fast as possible with no Stop Time) to Net Run Time (all parts manufactured as fast as possible with no stop time).
 OEE Formula
 OEE takes into account all losses, resulting in a measure of truly productive manufacturing time. It is calculated as:
 OEE = Availability × Performance × Quality

 If the equations for Availability, Performance, and Quality are substituted in the above and reduced to their simplest terms, the result is:
 OEE = (Good Count × Ideal Cycle Time) / Planned Production Time

 This is the “simplest” OEE calculation described earlier. And, as described earlier, multiplying Good Count by Ideal Cycle Time results in Fully Productive Time (manufacturing only Good Parts as fast as possible, with no Stop Time).
 Why the Preferred OEE Calculation?
 OEE scores provide very valuable insight – an accurate picture of how effectively your manufacturing process is running. And it makes it easy to track improvements in that process over time.
 What your OEE score doesn’t provide is any insights as to the underlying causes of lost productivity. This is the role of Availability, Performance, and Quality.
 In the preferred calculation, you get the best of both worlds. A single number that captures how well you are doing (OEE) and three numbers that capture the fundamental nature of your losses (Availability, Performance, and Quality).
 Here is an interesting example. Look at the following OEE data for two sequential weeks.
 OEE Factor Week 1 Week 2 
 OEE 85.1% 85.7% 
 Availability 90.0% 95.0% 
 Performance 95.0% 95.0% 
 Quality 99.5% 95.0% 

 OEE is improving. Great job! Or is it? Dig a little deeper, and the picture is less clear. Most companies would not want to increase Availability by 5.0% at the expense of decreasing Quality by 4.5%.
 The Manufacturing Productivity Improvement Device That Feels Like Magic In less than 8 hours you can benefit from automated, real-time accurate data. Learn About Vorne XL 

 42,000+ Installations 
 45+ Countries 
 $4,690 One-Time Cost 
 8 Hours to Deploy 
 50+ Years in Business 

 8 Hours to Deploy 
 50+ Years in Business 

 OEE CALCULATION EXAMPLE
 Now, let’s work through a complete example using the preferred OEE calculation. Here is the data recorded for the first shift:
 Item Data 
 Shift Length 8 hours (480 minutes) 
 Breaks (2) 15 minutes and (1) 30 minutes 
 Downtime 47 minutes 
 Ideal Cycle Time 1.0 seconds 
 Total Count 19,271 widgets 
 Reject Count 423 widgets 

 Planned Production Time
 As described in the OEE Factors page, the OEE calculation begins with Planned Production Time. So first, exclude any Shift Time where there is no intention of running production (typically Breaks).
 Formula: Shift Length − Breaks

 Example: 480 minutes − 60 minutes = 420 minutes 

 Run Time
 The next step is to calculate the amount of time that production was actually running (was not stopped). Remember that Stop Time should include both Unplanned Stops (e.g., Breakdowns) or Planned Stops (e.g., Changeovers). Both provide opportunities for improvement.
 Formula: Planned Production Time − Stop Time

 Example: 420 minutes − 47 minutes = 373 minutes 

 Good Count
 If you do not directly track Good Count, it also needs to be calculated.
 Formula: Total Count − Reject Count

 Example: 19,271 widgets − 423 widgets = 18,848 widgets 

 Availability
 Availability is the first of the three OEE factors to be calculated. It accounts for when the process is not running (both Unplanned Stops and Planned Stops).
 Formula: Run Time / Planned Production Time

 Example: 373 minutes / 420 minutes = 0.8881 (88.81%)

 Performance
 Performance is the second of the three OEE factors to be calculated. It accounts for when the process is running slower than its theoretical top speed (both Small Stops and Slow Cycles).
 Formula: (Ideal Cycle Time × Total Count) / Run Time

 Example: (1.0 seconds × 19,271 widgets) / (373 minutes × 60 seconds) = 0.8611 (86.11%)

 Performance can also be calculated based on Ideal Run Rate. The equivalent Ideal Run Rate in our example is 60 parts per minute.
 Formula: (Total Count / Run Time) / Ideal Run Rate

 Example: (19,271 widgets / 373 minutes) / 60 parts per minute = 0.8611 (86.11%)

 Quality
 Quality is the third of the three OEE factors to be calculated. It accounts for manufactured parts that do not meet quality standards.
 Formula: Good Count / Total Count

 Example: 18,848 widgets / 19,271 widgets = 0.9780 (97.80%)

 OEE
 Finally, OEE is calculated by multiplying the three OEE factors .
 Formula: Availability × Performance × Quality

 Example: 0.8881 × 0.8611 × 0.9780 = 0.7479 (74.79%)

 OEE can also be calculated using the simple calculation.
 Formula: (Good Count × Ideal Cycle Time) / Planned Production Time

 Example: (18,848 widgets × 1.0 seconds) / (420 minutes × 60 seconds) = 0.7479 (74.79%)

 The result is the same in both cases. The OEE for this shift is 74.79%.
 Download Free OEE Tools 

 WHAT YOU SHOULD DO NEXT...
 1. Learn more about how our product, Vorne XL, can help you eliminate waste and significantly improve OEE.
 Vorne XL is the simplest and fastest way to monitor and improve production. It's a one-time cost and takes just a day to install. And you can try it completely free for 90 days.
 Learn More 2. Download our FREE package of tools to supercharge your manufacturing productivity
 The package includes leadership lessons, training guides, meeting and report templates, summaries of key concepts, project organizers, and more. You'll also receive our monthly newsletter for free. Unsubscribe at any time.
 DOWNLOAD FREE LEAN TOOLS 3. Sign up for our monthly newsletter
 Get free monthly updates with proven methods for improving our manufacturing productivity. Unsubscribe at any time.

 First Name* 
 Last Name* 

 Email* 
 Phone Number* 
 Company Name* 
 What would you like to achieve with XL? 
 Submit 

 +1.630.875.3600 [email protected] 1445 Industrial Dr. Itasca, IL 60143 
 Learn About OEE 
 What is OEE? OEE Factors Six Big Losses Hidden Factory Practical OEE 
 Calculate OEE Implement OEE Calculate TEEP Visual OEE ™ 
 Improve OEE World-Class Address the Six Big Losses Takt Time 

 Resources 
 Free OEE Tools OEE Glossary FAQ 

 About Us 
 Our Company Vorne.com LeanProduction.com Vorne XL Free Trial 

 © 2011-2026 Vorne Industries. All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy