SOURCE: https://www.vorne.com/solutions/applications/scoreboards/
FETCHED: 2026-10-05

Manufacturing Production Scoreboards | Vorne

[IMG alt=Logo]

PRODUCTS

THE XL PLATFORM

What Is XL? XL Touch NewXL HD+ NewXL810-1 
Models and Pricing Tech Specs What's New With XL? Free 90-Day Trial 
XL ADD-ONS

XL Sidekick App FreeBarcode Scanner Kits Integration Tools Services 
MORE

Testimonials Customers and Industries Additional Products Product Manuals 
Try Vorne XL free for 90 days

SERVICES

SERVICES

Services from Vorne XL Expert Training The XL Universe IDA: Information, Decision, Action Meet the Services Team 
Try Vorne XL free for 90 days

SOLUTIONS

APPLICATIONS

Machine Monitoring OEE Displays OEE Software Production Counters Production Monitoring Production Scoreboards Takt Time 
USE CASES

Creating a Digital Twin Improve Productivity Increase Production Capacity Reduce Changeover Times Reduce Cycle Times Reduce Downtime Reduce Manufacturing Costs Win the Shift 
INDUSTRIES

Automotive Baking Bottling Building Products Co-Packing Cosmetics Electronics Food and Beverage 
Medical Devices Metal Forming Metal Stamping Packaging Pharmaceutical Printing Pulp and Paper Textiles 
Try Vorne XL free for 90 days

LEARNING CENTER

METHODOLOGIES

Agile Continuous Improvement Information, Decision, Action Lean Manufacturing Structured Improvement Theory of Constraints Total Productive Maintenance Toyota Production System 
METRICS AND MEASURES

Downtime Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) OEE Six Big Losses TEEP 
PEOPLE-FOCUSED

Be Your Best Leadership Meetings 
TOOLS AND TECHNIQUES

Andon Short Interval Control Single-Minute Exchange of Die Top Losses Visual Factory 
Try Vorne XL free for 90 days

SUPPORT

WE CAN HELP

Technical Support 
DOCUMENTATION

Product Manuals Software Applications 
Try Vorne XL free for 90 days

ABOUT US

VORNE

About Us Contact Us Careers 
Try Vorne XL free for 90 days

GLOBAL

XL PARTNERS

XL Partners 
Try Vorne XL free for 90 days

PRODUCTS

SERVICES

SOLUTIONS

LEARNING CENTER

SUPPORT

ABOUT US

GLOBAL

MANUFACTURING IMPROVEMENT MADE EASY BY VORNE

[IMG alt=background]

Production Scoreboards
Production scoreboards display key information on the plant floor in real time so your production team knows exactly how they are doing and when action needs to be taken.
The most effective scoreboards do more than display information – they create focus, reinforce expectations, and help teams stay on pace throughout their shift.

[IMG alt=XL HDMI scoreboard showing takt time along with other plant-floor KPIs, and a snapshot of a takt time report built into XL.]

What Are Manufacturing Scoreboards?
Production scoreboards can be as simple as a stacklight communicating machine state through color, or as sophisticated as an electronic display showing multiple production metrics and contextual information in real time.
The most effective production scoreboards are dynamic. They update automatically throughout the shift and communicate exactly what operators and supervisors need to know at that moment in time.
View Our Production Scoreboards
Why Use Production Scoreboards?
Every day, manufacturers look for better ways to eliminate waste and increase productivity. One of the easiest and fastest ways to make gains is to focus your plant floor team on production metrics that are proven to drive improvement in manufacturing productivity (e.g., Overall Equipment Effectiveness, Down Time, Changeover Time, First Pass Yield, and Efficiency). These types of metrics are typically referred to as KPIs (Key Performance Indicators).
Well-chosen KPIs that are widely communicated and consistently reinforced can be very effective in transforming a group of individuals into a high-performance team. Production scoreboards are a proven tool for communicating and reinforcing these KPIs in real time.
Scoreboards create focus, communicate information, and encourage your production teams to “win their shift”.

[IMG alt=Example of an HDMI production scoreboard driven by the Vorne XL production monitoring platform.]Industrial plant-floor scoreboards communicate real-time KPIs and encourage your plant floor employees to “win their shift”.
Try the XL Production Scoreboard Free

Types of Production Scoreboards
There are three common types of scoreboards used in manufacturing:

TypeHow It's Used
Andon BoardsThe simplest type of production scoreboard. Typically a stacklight that communicates equipment state using color. For example, green, yellow, red, and blue lights may communicate whether the equipment is running well, running poorly, down, or in a changeover condition. Flashing lights convey increased urgency. Andon boards are effective for drawing attention to equipment conditions, but they are limited in the amount of information they can communicate.
WhiteboardsPortable (on wheels) or fixed (wall-mounted) writable boards where KPIs and other information are periodically updated. Typical information includes counts, rates, downtime, and targets. Whiteboards can be very effective when updated consistently, but the information is not real-time, must be captured manually, and is difficult to view from a distance.
Real-Time Visual DisplaysPlant floor electronic displays that show KPIs and other important information. The most effective visual displays are dynamic and automatically adapt based on current production conditions. They take full advantage of real-time information by:
Updating KPIs automatically throughout the shift
Using color changes and flashing to communicate urgency
Displaying contextual information based on current production conditions
Showing performance metrics while running
Displaying downtime information during breakdowns
Highlighting target time during changeovers and breaks
Automatically capturing production data directly from machines

How to Use Scoreboards in Manufacturing
A very effective way to use scoreboards is to communicate three types of information:

InformationConveysKPI
ExpectationWhere should we be?Target
PerformanceWhere are we?Actual
AchievementHow are we doing?Efficiency
Expectation
Expectation communicates where production metrics should be at any given point of time.
Setting expectations lends itself well to SMART goals (Specific, Measureable, Achievable, Relevant, and Time-Specific).
An effective way to set expectations for manufacturing lines is to display a real-time Target Count driven by Takt Time. Target Count continuously updates throughout the shift and communicates how many good parts should have been manufactured at any given point of time (typically restarted from zero with each new shift).
Performance
Performance communicates where production actually is at any given point of time.
An effective way to communicate performance for manufacturing lines is to display Good Count.
In general, match the units of your performance metric to the units of your expectation metric. For example:
If your expectation metric is measured in counts, display the current count.
If your expectation metric is measured as a rate, display the current rate.
Achievement
Achievement communicates how well production is performing against expectations.
This is where you clearly communicate whether your team is “winning their shift” (whether they are meeting or exceeding expectations).
An effective way to communicate achievement for manufacturing lines is to display Efficiency:
Actual ÷ Target
Displayed as a percentage
Remember - the goal of using manufacturing scoreboards is to influence behavior and drive action on the factory floor.
With that in mind, plant floor scoreboards are most effective when they are real-time. After all, a scoreboard is not a report. It's not a tool for deep analysis. It's a tool for instantly communicating how production is performing and whether the shift is ahead, behind, or on pace (whether your team is winning the shift).
You have good people, and good people are capable of achieving great results - especially when they have the right information and focus to drive effective actions.
Production scoreboards provide the information and focus that lead to effective actions, and ultimately, to improved results. Set expectations and unleash the competitive spirit of your employees. Everyone likes to win. Use scoreboards to make it easier for your plant floor employees to win their shift!

Production Scoreboard Comparison Chart
The following selection chart highlights some of the many advantages of using the Vorne XL Productivity Appliance™ as a production scoreboard. We like to think of XL as the ultimate plant floor scoreboard!
View Our Models and Pricing

AdvantageAndonWhiteboardVorne XL Productivity Appliance™

[IMG alt=Andon with red, yellow, and green stacked lights.]

[IMG alt=Production whiteboard for hourly metrics.]

[IMG alt=Manufacturing scoreboard showing Efficiency, OEE, Target Count, Actual Count, and Downtime]
Affordable✔✔✔
Highly Visible✔✔
Engages Operators✔✔✔
Automates Data Capture✔
Real-Time Information✔✔
Historical Analytics✔
Browser-Based Reports✔
Multiple KPIs✔✔
Downtime Alerts✔✔
Slow Running Alerts✔
Changeover/Break Timers✔
Count Metrics✔✔
Rate Metrics✔
Cycle Metrics✔
Production Time Metrics✔
OEE Metrics✔
Six Big Loss Metrics✔
TEEP/Capacity Metrics✔
Target Metrics✔✔

Real-Time Production Scoreboards with XL
The Vorne XL Productivity Appliance™ automatically captures production data, calculates over 140 metrics, and displays real-time KPIs on scoreboards for the plant floor.
Manufacturers use XL scoreboards to display:
Target vs. Actual
Efficiency
Downtime
Production counts
Rates
Changeover timers
Break timers
OEE metrics
Escalation alerts
And much, much more
Because XL captures production data directly from machines, scoreboards update automatically throughout the shift without requiring manual intervention.
XL production scoreboards can be displayed on:
Integrated LED displays
Large external TVs and monitors
Touchscreen operator interfaces
Browser-based dashboards
The most effective scoreboards communicate the right information at the right time. For example:
Target pace while production is running
Downtime information during breakdowns
Remaining time during breaks and changeovers
The result is a real-time production scoreboard that helps operators and supervisors immediately see how production is performing and when action needs to be taken.

The Manufacturing Productivity Improvement Device That Feels Like MagicIn less than 8 hours you can benefit from automated, real-time accurate data.Learn About Vorne XL

[IMG alt=XL HD Run Screen]

45,000+Installations
45+Countries
$4,690One-Time Cost
8Hours to Deploy
50+Years in Business

8Hours to Deploy
50+Years in Business

First Name*
Last Name*
Email*
Phone Number*
Company Name*
What would you like to achieve with XL?Submit

[IMG alt=logo]+1.630.875.3600[email protected]1445 Industrial Dr. Itasca, IL 60143
Products

XL Productivity Appliance™Models and PricingTech Specs
Applications

Machine MonitoringProduction MonitoringOEE SoftwareOEE DisplaysProduction Monitoring SoftwareProduction CountersProduction ScoreboardsTakt Time
Use Cases

Increase CapacityImprove ProductivityReduce DowntimeReduce Changeover TimesReduce Cycle TimesReduce CostWin the ShiftCreate a Digital Twin
Learn

Learning CenterServicesSupport
About Us

Our CompanyOur CustomersCareers© 2011-2026 Vorne Industries. All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy

[IMG alt=Banner Ad]

What's included in your 90-day free trial?

[IMG alt=Andon Report]
VORNE XL | Works with any machine, any process, right out of the boxEasy, quick self-install | Accurate, real-time KPIs immediatelyTry XL for FREE today
GET STARTEDSEE HOW VORNE XL WORKS