SOURCE: https://www.vorne.com/products/xl/models/xl-hd-plus/
FETCHED: 2026-10-05

XL HD+ Productivity Appliance | Vorne

[IMG alt=Logo]

PRODUCTS

THE XL PLATFORM

What Is XL? XL Touch NewXL HD+ NewXL810-1 
Models and Pricing Tech Specs What's New With XL? Free 90-Day Trial 
XL ADD-ONS

XL Sidekick App FreeBarcode Scanner Kits Integration Tools Services 
MORE

Testimonials Customers and Industries Additional Products Product Manuals 
Try Vorne XL free for 90 days

SERVICES

SERVICES

Services from Vorne XL Expert Training The XL Universe IDA: Information, Decision, Action Meet the Services Team 
Try Vorne XL free for 90 days

SOLUTIONS

APPLICATIONS

Machine Monitoring OEE Displays OEE Software Production Counters Production Monitoring Production Scoreboards Takt Time 
USE CASES

Creating a Digital Twin Improve Productivity Increase Production Capacity Reduce Changeover Times Reduce Cycle Times Reduce Downtime Reduce Manufacturing Costs Win the Shift 
INDUSTRIES

Automotive Baking Bottling Building Products Co-Packing Cosmetics Electronics Food and Beverage 
Medical Devices Metal Forming Metal Stamping Packaging Pharmaceutical Printing Pulp and Paper Textiles 
Try Vorne XL free for 90 days

LEARNING CENTER

METHODOLOGIES

Agile Continuous Improvement Information, Decision, Action Lean Manufacturing Structured Improvement Theory of Constraints Total Productive Maintenance Toyota Production System 
METRICS AND MEASURES

Downtime Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) OEE Six Big Losses TEEP 
PEOPLE-FOCUSED

Be Your Best Leadership Meetings 
TOOLS AND TECHNIQUES

Andon Short Interval Control Single-Minute Exchange of Die Top Losses Visual Factory 
Try Vorne XL free for 90 days

SUPPORT

WE CAN HELP

Technical Support 
DOCUMENTATION

Product Manuals Software Applications 
Try Vorne XL free for 90 days

ABOUT US

VORNE

About Us Contact Us Careers 
Try Vorne XL free for 90 days

GLOBAL

XL PARTNERS

XL Partners 
Try Vorne XL free for 90 days

PRODUCTS

SERVICES

SOLUTIONS

LEARNING CENTER

SUPPORT

ABOUT US

GLOBAL

MANUFACTURING IMPROVEMENT MADE EASY BY VORNE

[IMG alt=background]

XL HD+
The Most Cost-Effective Way to Monitor Production
The XL HD+ Productivity Appliance is a purpose-built edge computing device designed and manufactured by Vorne to monitor production, accelerate your digital transformation, and foster a culture of productivity.Try XL HD+ Free for 90 Days

[IMG alt=XL HD+ device and HDMI scoreboard showing the current line status.]

Small Footprint, Huge Impact
XL HD+ is a compact, rugged, industrial device that fully integrates hardware and software to deliver production monitoring in real time. Simply connect power plus one or two sensors, and XL instantly delivers 140+ metrics across 20+ data dimensions, all easily accessible through its extensive and intuitive browser-based reporting suite. Connect a TV or monitor of your choice via HDMI for an operator scoreboard that further aligns your entire team with a shared view of operations.
Built on our next-generation hardware platform with significantly greater processing power, memory, and storage, XL HD+ is well equipped to handle today’s challenges and tomorrow’s innovations.

[IMG alt=The XL HD Plus device features power, HDMI, USB, Ethernet, OLED screen, digital inputs, a production state indicator, and relay output.]
Book a Live Demo

The Price: $4,690

No hidden fees

No recurring fees

No maintenance fees

No contracts to sign

No custom software

One-time cost

Unlimited users

Free software updates

Free technical support

3-year warranty
The XL HD+ is $4,690 per line (USA and Canada). Quantity discounts are available.
Try XL Free for 90 Days

Visualize Your Plant Floor
Hit Your Target, Win the Shift
Connect any size TV or monitor to the XL HD+ HDMI port for an instant operator scoreboard. For example, a 55" display can show metrics as large as 5" for easy viewing at 100+ feet.
The plant-floor scoreboard is the single most impactful and quickest way to drive improvement - by empowering and encouraging your operators to win the shift. Empower operators with the KPIs most relevant to them. Encourage operators with an efficiency score - a clear, easily understandable takt-based target with a pace that automatically adjusts based on the part you’re running. An Efficiency score of 100% or better means they’re winning the shift.
For plant-floor supervisors, the integrated chronogram is particularly helpful, as it provides an instant visualization of the shift. They can easily identify down time at the start or end of the shift, running slowly after changeovers, etc.
The scoreboard automatically adapts based on the production state XL detects - showing the right information at the right time. When your process is running, the scoreboard shows the current state of the line at a glance.

[IMG alt=XL HD+ HDMI scoreboard depicting the current line status and shift KPIs.]
When your process is not running, the focus is on helping you return to production. XL automatically detects and displays unplanned events (such as running slowly and down) and also indicates planned events (such as changeovers and breaks) with clear, attention-grabbing visuals.

[IMG alt=HDMI plant-floor scoreboard depicting the line going into a part change.]

[IMG alt=HDMI plant-floor scoreboard depicting the line going into a break.]

[IMG alt=HDMI plant-floor scoreboard depicting the line going down and encouraging operators to add a down reason.]

Operators: Win the Shift
Operational Tools for Your Plant-Floor Team
XL automatically collects precise data about down time, rejects, etc. so that all operators need to do is annotate this data with their perspective (e.g., add reasons for down events). The plant-floor scoreboard relfects the real-time status of the line, alerting operators when appropriate and keeping them informed.
When the line goes down, operators are prompted to add a reason, which they can do quickly and easily with a barcode scanner or with the free XL Sidekick app. Operators add their perspective in real time, right at the source, and right when it is fresh in their minds.

[IMG alt=Our Free XL Sidekick companion app open to the down reason page.]

Supervisors: A Continuous Improvement Roadmap
Top Loss Reports for Tactical Quick Wins
One of the fastest ways for supervisors to impact manufacturing productivity is to relentlessly focus on production losses, beginning with the largest sources of loss. In other words, focus your attention on the smallest set of improvement actions that will yield big results. Think of the browser-based Top Losses report as your real-time, personalized continuous improvement roadmap.

[IMG alt=Top Losses report built in Vorne XL and used to help supervisors make action plans.]
Other popular tools for supervisors include:
Down Time Pareto (an all-time classic)
TPT (the Total Production Timeline combines a colorful chronogram with categorized loss data)
Six Big Losses (transforms OEE into six distinct categories that are natural targets for improvement actions)
Hour-by-Hour Heatmap (even better when stacked with a chronogram showing breaks, changeovers, etc.)

Managers: The Big Picture
Strategic Decisions Based on Precise Data
Having an accurate view of production throughout the entire enterprise aids managers in setting and following up on large-scale objectives. Data rollup and trended reports inform long term goals that then guide tactical and operational actions.
Charts depicting data over time, like this example that plots quarterly OEE trends by department, reveal challenge areas and areas that deserve praise because they are exceeding targets. In this case, both Stamping and Pressing began the quarter in decline. However, Stamping began steady improvement a few weeks in, whereas Pressing continued to decline. The manager can dig deeper to find out what each department did differently, and set appropriate goals for the next quarter.

[IMG alt=OEE trend over time report built into Vorne XL and used to aid managerial decisionmaking.]

Wave Hello
Navigate between screens directly on the XL HD+ device using the built-in gesture sensor - simply swipe left or right. Operators can view real-time metrics for the current shift, part, and production events - or access diagnostic screens for device details like input activity and system status - directly from the device.

[IMG alt=The XL HD+ OLED screen depicting data for the current part run.]

[IMG alt=The XL HD+ OLED screen depicting input activity data.]

Metric

Diagnostic

Welcome to the XL Platform
Your XL Device Is Just the Beginning
XL devices are the foundation of the XL platform, which is a seamlessly connected system designed around three pillars: production monitoring, digital transformation, and culture of productivity. These pillars have one focus and one goal: rapid and sustainable improvements in manufacturing productivity.
XL serves as a single source of accurate and actionable data and insights. And as your needs grow, the XL platform grows with you - without lengthy projects, custom development, or needless complexity.

[IMG alt=Screen capture of a downtime pareto in the Vorne XL web page interface.]
Built-In Reports
XL HD+'s powerful integrated reporting suite has over 60 built-in reports.

[IMG alt=Screen capture of a top losses table in the Vorne XL web page interface.]
Custom Reports
Craft any number of custom reports using drag-and-drop widgets.

[IMG alt=Infographic depicting all the different systems that can integrate with XL.]
Integrate With Ease
Integrate to PLCs, MES, and ERP with the XL API or prebuilt partner solutions.

[IMG alt=Screen capture of email and mobile alerts sent from Vorne XL.]
Alerts and Emails
Subscribe to alerts (e.g., line down) and reports (e.g., shift, daily, weekly).

[IMG alt=XL Sidekick app on a phone and tablet.]
XL Sidekick
Instantly access every XL in your plant from a tablet or phone with our free app.

[IMG alt=XL HDMI scoreboard depicting the line in a down state.]
Line Status At-a-Glance
Empower operators to course correct with contextual real-time data.

Evaluate XL HD+ in your production environment with full platform access.Start Your Free 90-Day Trial

Technical Specifications

Processing Core
(4) 64-bit, 1.4 GHz ARM A-53 Cores
40GB Flash Memory, 4 GB RAM

Communication Ports
(1) 10/100 Auto-MDIX, Ethernet
(1) 2.0 USB-A Host, 500mA 5 VDC
(1) HDMI 1.4

Environmental
0° to 50°C ambient
5% to 95% humidity (non-condensing)

Digital Inputs and Outputs
(6) 5 to 24 VDC, Sink or Source
(1) SPDT, 30 VDC at 1A, Relay Out

Dimensions and Weight
7.75 x 7.75 x 2.00 in | 3 lbs

Power
24 VDC, 24 WTalk With an XL Expert

First Name*
Last Name*
Email*
Phone Number*
Company Name*
What would you like to achieve with XL?Submit

[IMG alt=logo]+1.630.875.3600[email protected]1445 Industrial Dr. Itasca, IL 60143
Products

XL Productivity Appliance™Models and PricingTech Specs
Applications

Machine MonitoringProduction MonitoringOEE SoftwareOEE DisplaysProduction Monitoring SoftwareProduction CountersProduction ScoreboardsTakt Time
Use Cases

Increase CapacityImprove ProductivityReduce DowntimeReduce Changeover TimesReduce Cycle TimesReduce CostWin the ShiftCreate a Digital Twin
Learn

Learning CenterServicesSupport
About Us

Our CompanyOur CustomersCareers© 2011-2026 Vorne Industries. All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy

[IMG alt=Banner Ad]

What's included in your 90-day free trial?

[IMG alt=Andon Report]
VORNE XL | Works with any machine, any process, right out of the boxEasy, quick self-install | Accurate, real-time KPIs immediatelyTry XL for FREE today
GET STARTEDSEE HOW VORNE XL WORKS