TOPICS Understand 
 What is OEE? OEE Factors Six Big Losses Hidden Factory Practical OEE 

 Measure 
 Calculate OEE Implement OEE Calculate TEEP Visual OEE ™ 

 Improve 
 Improve OEE World-Class OEE Address the Six Big Losses Takt Time 

 Try Vorne XL free for 90 days 

 FAQ 
 GLOSSARY 
 ABOUT US 
 FREE TOOLS 

 TOPICS 

 FAQ 

 GLOSSARY 

 ABOUT US 

 FREE TOOLS 

 LEARN THE ART & SCIENCE OF MANUFACTURING IMPROVEMENT FROM VORNE 
 Calculate TEEP

 THE BIG IDEA 

 OEE reveals how much of your Planned Production Time is truly productive, but TEEP also takes Utilization into account to show how much potential you have to increase throughput with the equipment you already own. 

 What Is TEEP?
 TEEP (Total Effective Equipment Performance) is a performance metric that provides insights as to the true capacity of your manufacturing operation. It takes account both Equipment Losses (as measured by OEE) and Schedule Losses (as measured by Utilization).

 TEEP is calculated by multiplying four factors: Availability, Performance, Quality, and Utilization. Let’s briefly contrast OEE and TEEP:
 OEE measures the percentage of Planned Production Time that is truly productive.
 TEEP measures the percentage of All Time that is truly productive.
 If your TEEP score is 100% then you are making only Good Parts, as fast as possible, with no stops, around the clock (24/7). In other words, you have no Schedule Losses and no OEE Losses .
 Plan Not Open Schedule Losses TEEP takes into account Schedule Losses. 
 Production Not Scheduled 
 Setup and Adjustments Six Big Losses OEE takes into account the Six Big Losses, which map to OEE Losses as follows: Availability Loss
 Performance Loss
 Quality Loss

 Breakdowns 
 Reduced Speed 
 Small Stops 
 Production Rejects 
 Startup Rejects 
 Fully Productive Time OEE and TEEP OEE is the ratio of Fully Productive Time to Planned Production Time. It takes into account the Six Big Losses.
 TEEP is the ratio of Fully Productive Time to All Time. It takes into account Schedule Losses and Six Big Losses.

 OEE is improving. Great job! Or is it? Dig a little deeper and the picture is less clear. Most companies would not want to increase Availability by 5.0% at the expense of decreasing Quality by 4.5%.
 Calculation Example
 Now let’s work through a complete example using the preferred OEE calculation. Here is data recorded for the first shift:
 Item Data 
 Shift Length 8 hours (480 minutes) 
 Breaks (2) 15 minute and (1) 30 minute 
 Downtime 47 minutes 
 Ideal Cycle Time 1.0 seconds 
 Total Count 19,271 widgets 
 Reject Count 423 widgets 

 How Is TEEP Calculated?
 TEEP is calculated as:
 TEEP = OEE × Utilization

 Utilization is calculated as:
 Utilization = Planned Production Time / All Time

 Here is a simple example, based on a manufacturing operation with a 65% OEE score, that is running two 8-hour shifts per day, five days per week.
 Item Value Calculation 
 OEE 65.00% How to calculate OEE 
 Planned Production Time 80 hours 8 hours × 2 shifts × 5 days 
 All Time 168 hours 24 hours × 7 days 
 Utilization 47.62% 80 hours / 168 hours 
 TEEP 30.95% 0.6500 × 0.4762 

 TEEP and the Hidden Factory
 TEEP indicates how much capacity is waiting to be unlocked in your “ hidden factory ”. In other words, it shows how much potential you have to increase throughput with your current equipment. In many cases, reclaiming time from your hidden factory is a faster and less expensive alternative to purchasing new equipment.
 TEEP can also be used to get a sense of your potential sales capacity as it takes into account the full capacity of your manufacturing plant. Keep in mind though, that even a world-class manufacturing plant operating around the clock typically achieves only 80% to 90% Utilization of total capacity.
 The Manufacturing Productivity Improvement Device That Feels Like Magic In less than 8 hours you can benefit from automated, real-time accurate data. Learn About Vorne XL 

 42,000+ Installations 
 45+ Countries 
 $4,690 One-Time Cost 
 8 Hours to Deploy 
 50+ Years in Business 

 8 Hours to Deploy 
 50+ Years in Business 

 Manufacturing Capacity and Equipment Utilization
 Capacity can be defined as “the amount that can be produced”. From a discrete manufacturing perspective, we can define capacity as “the maximum number of parts that can be manufactured”. Capacity is fundamentally a part-based metric (e.g., our current capacity is 24,000 red widgets per hour).
 Utilization can be defined as “how much something is used”. From a discrete manufacturing perspective, we can define utilization as “the proportion of time that manufacturing equipment is used”. Utilization is fundamentally a percentage-based metric (e.g., our current utilization is 47.62%).
 TEEP and Losses
 As stated above, TEEP takes into account both Schedule Losses and OEE Losses. Interestingly, losses can be viewed from three perspectives:
 Part Units (we lost 1,000 units of potential production)
 Time Units (we lost two hours of production)
 Percentage Units (we lost 17% of our Planned Production Time)
 All three perspectives can be useful – depending on whether you are thinking in terms of sales/capacity (part units), labor/utilization (time units), or manufacturing performance (percentage units).
 Measuring TEEP reveals these losses in full so that you can begin to understand and utilize the entire capacity of your plant.
 To learn more about manufacturing losses, visit the Six Big Losses .

 WHAT YOU SHOULD DO NEXT...
 1. Learn more about how our product, Vorne XL, can help you eliminate waste and significantly improve OEE.
 Vorne XL is the simplest and fastest way to monitor and improve production. It's a one-time cost and takes just a day to install. And you can try it completely free for 90 days.
 Learn More 2. Download our FREE package of tools to supercharge your manufacturing productivity
 The package includes leadership lessons, training guides, meeting and report templates, summaries of key concepts, project organizers, and more. You'll also receive our monthly newsletter for free. Unsubscribe at any time.
 DOWNLOAD FREE LEAN TOOLS 3. Sign up for our monthly newsletter
 Get free monthly updates with proven methods for improving our manufacturing productivity. Unsubscribe at any time.

 First Name* 
 Last Name* 

 Email* 
 Phone Number* 
 Company Name* 
 What would you like to achieve with XL? 
 Submit 

 +1.630.875.3600 [email protected] 1445 Industrial Dr. Itasca, IL 60143 
 Learn About OEE 
 What is OEE? OEE Factors Six Big Losses Hidden Factory Practical OEE 
 Calculate OEE Implement OEE Calculate TEEP Visual OEE ™ 
 Improve OEE World-Class Address the Six Big Losses Takt Time 

 Resources 
 Free OEE Tools OEE Glossary FAQ 

 About Us 
 Our Company Vorne.com LeanProduction.com Vorne XL Free Trial 

 © 2011-2026 Vorne Industries. All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy